#summary How to access the SwiFTP server in various environments

= Introduction =

This page explains how to use and connect to the SwiFTP server on your Android phone. It assumes you've already downloaded and installed the program.

Questions can be addressed to the SwiFTP-users group: [http://groups.google.com/group/swiftp-users] if they're not answered here.

= General instructions =

Here are rudimentary instructions for those who are familiar with FTP. More detailed instructions with 

  * The server is listening to port 2121 on the wifi network interface.
  * The username is "anonymous" and any password will be accepted
  * Your wifi IP address is shown from the main SwiFTP screen as a convenience
  * *You MUST use PASV mode.* Normal FTP mode (non-PASV) does not work, thought this feature will be added soon.
  * Any FTP client should work. If not, please report this, it's probably a SwiFTP bug: [http://code.google.com/p/swiftp/issues/list]. Please include as many details as possible about the software and operating system that you are using.

Modern browsers have at least read-only FTP support. Try punching in your server URL (the "ftp://...." thing) into the address bar of your browser to get read-only access to your files.

== Android filesystem permissions and the /sdcard directory ==

If you're running a T-Mobile G1 like I am, you don't have write permissions to much of your filesystem. This is an unfortunate fact of life that has been inflicted on us by T-Mobile for business reasons. Most likely you want to store your stuff in the /sdcard directory.

= Windows XP/2000 =

Follow these steps:

  * Start Menu -> Run.
  * In the box that appears type "explorer", press enter.
  * Enter the Server URL as it appears inside the SwiFTP application. This is the thing that starts with "ftp://".
  * If you are prompted for a username, enter "anonymous". If you are prompted for a password, enter anything you like.
  * Rock out.


= Windows Vista =

Someone please help with this one. Wiki!

= Mac OS X =

Someone with a Mac please help out with this one and add instructions here. Thank you!